Add 'Backup and Restore' section for Private Registry (#139)
SUSE/suse-best-practices: adoc/Private-Registry-Administration.adoc

suse-registry-harbor-trivy-0                       1/1     Running   1          24h
suse-registry-harbor-trivy-1                       1/1     Running   0          24h
----

=== Backup and Restore

> As an application that is deployed on kubernetes, backup and restore for {spr} can be performed by Velero. Velero is an application that performs backup/restore, disaster recovery, and migrate Kubernetes cluster resources and persistent volumes.

Reviewer: Do we want to link Velero page when it is mentioned for the first time?

Author: done

> The backup and restore for {spr} can be performed by link:https://documentation.suse.com/suse-caasp/4.2/html/caasp-admin/_backup_and_restore_with_velero.html[Velero]. Velero is an application that performs backup and restore, disaster recovery, and the migration of Kubernetes cluster resources and persistent volumes.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Backup and restore for {spr} can be performed by link:https://documentation.suse.com/suse-caasp/4.2/html/caasp-admin/_backup_and_restore_with_velero.html[Velero]. Velero not only handles this, but also disaster recovery, and the migration of Kubernetes cluster resources and persistent volumes.
```

> As an application that is deployed on kubernetes, backup and restore for {spr} can be performed by link:https://documentation.suse.com/suse-caasp/4.2/html/caasp-admin/_backup_and_restore_with_velero.html[Velero]. Velero is an application that performs backup/restore, disaster recovery, and migrate Kubernetes cluster resources and persistent volumes.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The backup and restore for {spr} is performed by link:https://documentation.suse.com/suse-caasp/4.2/html/caasp-admin/_backup_and_restore_with_velero.html[Velero]. Velero is an application that performs backup and restore, disaster recovery, and the migration of Kubernetes cluster resources and persistent volumes.

Author: done

> Velero is able to fully cover the backup and restore for {spr} when it is deployed using internal services (database and redis). However, as Velero is only responsible for Kubernetes resources, when {spr} is deployed using external service providers, such as managed PostgreSQL database or object storage (Amazon S3/Azure Blob Storage), additional actions need to be performed to ensure the backup of data external to the Kubernetes cluster.

Author: SPR can optionally also deploy a database (more specifically a postgres database)

> Velero is able to fully cover the backup and restore for {spr} when it is deployed using internal services (database and redis). However, as Velero is only responsible for Kubernetes resources, when {spr} is deployed using external service providers, such as managed PostgreSQL database or object storage (Amazon S3/Azure Blob Storage), additional actions need to be performed to ensure the backup of data external to the Kubernetes cluster.

Author: done

> Velero is able to fully cover the backup/restore for {spr} when it is deployed using internal services, such as database and redis. However, as Velero only covers kubernetes resources, when {spr} is deployed using external service providers, such as managed PostgreSQL database or object storage (Amazon S3/Azure Blob Storage), additional actions should be performed to ensure the backup of data external to the kubernetes cluster.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Velero is responsible for the backup and restore for {spr} when deployed using internal services such as database and redis. However, as Velero is only responsible for Kubernetes resources. When {spr} is deployed using external service providers, such as managed PostgreSQL database or object storage (Amazon S3/Azure Blob Storage), additional actions need to be performed to ensure the backup of data external to the Kubernetes cluster.

Reviewer 3: "internal services such as database and redis." - what is "internal services such as database" - like, a database? Or something more specific?

Author: Optionally SPR can deploy some required services (database and redis) inside the kubernetes cluster. The other option is to use an external database/redis and that is the case where velero is not able to backup the data from those services.

> When {spr} is configured to be deployed together with its internal services (database, Redis and filesystem storage for image and artifacts) Velero is able to fully cover the backup and restore for it. However, as Velero is only responsible for Kubernetes resources, when {spr} is deployed using external service providers, such as managed PostgreSQL database or object storage (Amazon S3/Azure Blob Storage), additional actions need to be performed to ensure the backup of data external to the Kubernetes cluster.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When {spr} is configured to be deployed together with its internal services (database, Redis and filesystem storage for image and artifacts), Velero is able to fully cover the backup and restore for it. However, as Velero is only responsible for Kubernetes resources, when {spr} is deployed using external service providers, such as a managed PostgreSQL database or object storage (Amazon S3 or Azure Blob Storage), additional actions must be performed to ensure the backup of data that is external to the Kubernetes cluster.
```

Reviewer 2: May I suggest keeping line length under 88 characters?

Author: As the whole document is not formatted under the 88 characters / line, I would prefer to keep it as it is.

> When {spr} is configured to be deployed together with its internal services (database, Redis and filesystem storage for image and artifacts) Velero is able to fully cover the backup and restore for it. However, as Velero is only responsible for Kubernetes resources, when {spr} is deployed using external service providers, such as managed PostgreSQL database or object storage (Amazon S3 or Azure Blob Storage), additional actions must be performed to ensure the backup of data that is external to the Kubernetes cluster.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When {spr} is deployed together with its internal services (database, Redis and filesystem storage for image and artifacts) Velero is able to fully handle its backup and restore. However, as Velero is only responsible for Kubernetes resources, when {spr} is deployed using external service providers, such as managed PostgreSQL database or object storage (Amazon S3 or Azure Blob Storage), additional actions must be performed to ensure the backup of data that is external to the Kubernetes cluster.
```

In general, the backup and restore process for {spr} can be split in two parts:

> * Backup/restore of kubernetes resources (performed by Velero):

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* Backup and restore of Kubernetes resources (performed by Velero):

** Namespace
** Deployment
** ReplicaSet
** StatefulSet
** Endpoint
** Service
** Ingress
** ConfigMap
** Secret
** PersistentVolumeClaim
** PersistentVolume
** Pod

> ** Other CRDs (e.g. Certificate when using cert-manager or RedisFailover when using redis-operator)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
** Other CRDs (For example, certificates when using `cert-manager` or `RedisFailover` with `redis-operator`)

Author: done

> * Backup/restore of external services:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* Backup and restore of external services:

Author: done

> ** Other CRDs (e.g. `Certificate` when using `cert-manager` or `RedisFailover` when using `redis-operator`)

Reviewer 2: Should the names really be formatted as literal strings here?

Author: I think so, those are resource names on Kubernetes and helm chart names.

** Database
** Redis
** Object Storage

> ==== Backup/restore of kubernetes resources

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
==== Backup and restore of Kubernetes resources

Author: done

> The following steps describe how to perform the backup and restore of kubernetes resources using Velero.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The following steps describe how to perform the backup and restoration of Kubernetes resources using Velero.

Author: done

===== Backup

> . Install Velero as described in its link:https://documentation.suse.com/suse-caasp/4.2/html/caasp-admin/_backup_and_restore_with_velero.html[documentation]

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
. Install Velero as described in the link:https://documentation.suse.com/suse-caasp/4.2/html/caasp-admin/_backup_and_restore_with_velero.html[documentation]

Author: done

> . (optional) If using a volume provider does not support volume snapshot or volume snapshot API, or does not have Velero supported storage plugin, Velero leverages restic as an agnostic solution to backup and restore this sort of persistent volumes. To perform a restic backup of the persistent volumes Velero requires to add an specific annotation (`backup.velero.io/backup-volumes=<VOLUME_NAME_1>,<VOLUME_NAME_2>,…​`) to the pods which have the volume(s) mounted. This can be achieved by adding the following entries to the {spr} helm chart `harbor-values.yaml` and performing helm upgrade to apply the annotations:

Reviewer: restic would deserve a link to its page

Author: done

> . (optional) If using a volume provider does not support volume snapshot or volume snapshot API, or does not have Velero supported storage plugin, Velero leverages link:https://restic.net/[restic] as an agnostic solution to backup and restore this sort of persistent volumes. To perform a restic backup of the persistent volumes Velero requires to add an specific annotation (`backup.velero.io/backup-volumes=<VOLUME_NAME_1>,<VOLUME_NAME_2>,...`) to the pods which have the volume(s) mounted. This can be achieved by adding the following entries to the {spr} helm chart `harbor-values.yaml` and performing helm upgrade to apply the annotations:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
. (optional) If you are using a volume provider that does not support the volume snapshot, the volume snapshot API, or does not have Velero supported storage plugin, Velero leverages link:https://restic.net/[restic] as an agnostic solution to backup and restore persistent volumes. To perform a restic backup of the persistent volumes, Velero requires the addition of a specific annotation (`backup.velero.io/backup-volumes=<VOLUME_NAME_1>,<VOLUME_NAME_2>,...`) to the pods that have the volumes mounted. This can be achieved by adding the following entries to the {spr} helm chart `harbor-values.yaml` and performing `helm upgrade` to apply the annotations:

Author: done

> . (optional) If you are using a volume provider that does not support volume snapshot or volume snapshot API, or does not have Velero supported storage plugin, Velero leverages link:https://restic.net/[restic] as an agnostic solution to backup and restore this sort of persistent volumes. To perform a restic backup of the persistent volumes Velero requires the addition of a specific annotation (`backup.velero.io/backup-volumes=<VOLUME_NAME_1>,<VOLUME_NAME_2>,...`) to the pods that have the volumes mounted. This can be achieved by adding the following entries to the {spr} helm chart `harbor-values.yaml` and performing `helm upgrade` to apply the annotations:

Author: replaced `agnostic` with `generic`.

> . (optional) If you are using a volume provider that does not support volume snapshots or a volume-snapshot API, or does not have Velero-supported storage plugin, Velero leverages link:https://restic.net/[restic] as a generic solution to backup and restore this sort of persistent volume. To perform a Restic backup of persistent volumes, Velero requires the addition of a specific annotation (`backup.velero.io/backup-volumes=<VOLUME_NAME_1>,<VOLUME_NAME_2>,...`) to the pods that have the volumes mounted. This can be achieved by adding the following entries to the {spr} helm chart `harbor-values.yaml`, and then performing `helm upgrade` to apply the annotations:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. (optional) If you are using a volume provider that does not support volume snapshots or a volume-snapshot API, or does not have Velero-supported storage plugin, then Velero uses link:https://restic.net/[Restic] as a generic solution for backing up and restoring this sort of persistent volume. To perform a Restic backup of persistent volumes, Velero requires the addition of a specific annotation (`backup.velero.io/backup-volumes=<VOLUME_NAME_1>,<VOLUME_NAME_2>,...`) to the pods that have the volumes mounted. This can be achieved by adding the following entries to {spr}'s Helm chart (`harbor-values.yaml`), then performing `helm upgrade` to apply the annotations:
```

> . (optional) If you are using a volume provider that does not support volume snapshots or a volume-snapshot API, or does not have Velero-supported storage plugin, Velero leverages link:https://restic.net/[restic] as an generic solution to backup and restore this sort of persistent volumes. To perform a Restic backup of the persistent volumes, Velero requires the addition of a specific annotation (`backup.velero.io/backup-volumes=<VOLUME_NAME_1>,<VOLUME_NAME_2>,...`) to the pods that have the volumes mounted. This can be achieved by adding the following entries to the {spr} helm chart `harbor-values.yaml`, and then performing `helm upgrade` to apply the annotations:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. (optional) If you are using a volume provider that does not support volume snapshots or a volume-snapshot API, or does not have Velero-supported storage plugin, Velero leverages link:https://restic.net/[restic] as a generic solution to backup and restore this sort of persistent volume. To perform a Restic backup of persistent volumes, Velero requires the addition of a specific annotation (`backup.velero.io/backup-volumes=<VOLUME_NAME_1>,<VOLUME_NAME_2>,...`) to the pods that have the volumes mounted. This can be achieved by adding the following entries to the {spr} helm chart `harbor-values.yaml`, and then performing `helm upgrade` to apply the annotations:
```

Author: done

+
.harbor-values.yaml
[source,yaml]
----
registry:
  podAnnotations:
    backup.velero.io/backup-volumes: registry-data
trivy:
  podAnnotations:
    backup.velero.io/backup-volumes: data
database:
  podAnnotations:
    backup.velero.io/backup-volumes: database-data
redis:
  podAnnotations:
    backup.velero.io/backup-volumes: data
----
+
[source,bash]
----
helm -n registry upgrade suse-registry ./harbor -f harbor-values.yaml
----
+
.External Services
[NOTE]
====

> If using an external service, such as a managed PostgreSQL database, adding the `database` entry is not required. The same applies for redis when using an external redis and for registry when using an external storage backend for storing images/artifacts.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
If using an external service, such as a managed PostgreSQL database, adding the `database` entry is not required. The same applies for redis when using an external redis and for registry when using an external storage backend for storing images and artifacts.

Author: done

> If using an external service, such as a managed PostgreSQL database, adding the `database` entry is not required. The same applies for redis when using an external redis and for registry when using an external storage backend for storing images and artifacts.

Author: done

> If using an external service, such as a managed PostgreSQL database, adding the `database` entry is not required. The same applies for `redis` when using an external Redis and for `registry` when using an external storage backend for storing images and artifacts.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If using an external service, such as a managed PostgreSQL database, you do not need to add the `database` entry. The same applies for `redis` when using an external Redis, and for `registry` when using an external storage back-end for storing images and artifacts.
```

Reviewer 2: We try to avoid passive voice where possible. One reason is that it is more difficult to translate.

====

> . Perform the backup by running the `velero backup create <backup-name> --include-namespaces <namespace-to-backup>` command, for example:

Author: done

> . Perform the backup by running the command `velero backup create <backup-name> --include-namespaces <namespace-to-backup>`, for example:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. Back-up the cluster with the command `velero backup create <backup-name> --include-namespaces <namespace-to-backup>`. For example:
```

+
[source,bash]
----
> velero backup create registry-backup --include-namespaces registry
Backup request "registry-backup" submitted successfully.
Run `velero backup describe registry-backup` or `velero backup logs registry-backup` for more details.
----
+
.Scope of the backup
[NOTE]
====

> Velero supports performing the backup of the whole kubernetes cluster resources, however in this case the backup is performed for the registry namespace only. In some cases, such as when using cert-manager or redis-operator, remember to also include those namespaces on the backup.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Velero supports performing the backup of Kubernetes cluster resources, however in this case the backup is performed for the registry namespace only. In some cases, such as when using `cert-manager` or `redis-operator`, you need to include those namespaces on the backup.

Author: done

> Velero supports performing the backup of all Kubernetes cluster resources, however in this case the backup is performed for the registry namespace only. In some cases, such as when using `cert-manager` or `redis-operator`, you might need to include those namespaces on the backup.

Author: done

> Velero supports performing the backup of all Kubernetes cluster resources; however, in this case, the backup is performed for the registry namespace only. In some cases, such as when using `cert-manager` or `redis-operator`, you might need to include those namespaces in the backup.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Velero supports backing up of all Kubernetes cluster resources; however, in this case, the backup is performed for the registry namespace only. In some cases, such as when using `cert-manager` or `redis-operator`, you might need to include those namespaces in the backup.
```

====
+

> . Run `velero backup describe <backup-name>` to check the backup status and ensure that it finishes successfully, for example:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
. Run `velero backup describe <backup-name>` to check the backup status and ensure its completion. For example:

Author: done

> . Run `velero backup describe <backup-name>` to check the backup status and ensure its completion. For example:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. To check the backup status and ensure its completion, run `velero backup describe <backup-name>` . For example:
```

+
[source,bash]
----
> velero backup describe registry-backup
Name:         registry-backup
Namespace:    velero
Labels:       velero.io/storage-location=default
Annotations:  <none>

Phase:  Completed

Namespaces:
  Included:  registry
  Excluded:  <none>

Resources:
  Included:        *
  Excluded:        <none>
  Cluster-scoped:  auto

Label selector:  <none>

Storage Location:  default

Snapshot PVs:  auto

TTL:  720h0m0s

Hooks:  <none>

Backup Format Version:  1

Started:    2020-12-17 12:00:12 +0100 CET
Completed:  2020-12-17 12:01:36 +0100 CET

Expiration:  2021-01-16 12:00:12 +0100 CET

Persistent Volumes: <none included>

Restic Backups (specify --details for more information):
  Completed:  4
----

.Backup options
[NOTE]
====

> For more advanced options such as scheduling backups and configuring its expiration time, check the link:https://documentation.suse.com/suse-caasp/4.2/html/caasp-admin/_backup_and_restore_with_velero.html[Velero documentation].

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
For more advanced options, such as scheduling backups and configuring its expiration time, check the link:https://documentation.suse.com/suse-caasp/4.2/html/caasp-admin/_backup_and_restore_with_velero.html[Velero documentation].

Author: done

> For more advanced options, such as scheduling backups and configuring its expiration time, check the link:https://documentation.suse.com/suse-caasp/4.2/html/caasp-admin/_backup_and_restore_with_velero.html[Velero documentation].

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For more advanced options, such as scheduling backups and configuring expiration times, check the link:https://documentation.suse.com/suse-caasp/4.2/html/caasp-admin/_backup_and_restore_with_velero.html[Velero documentation].
```

====

===== Restore

> . If the restore is performed on a new kubernetes cluster, install Velero by following its link:https://documentation.suse.com/suse-caasp/4.2/html/caasp-admin/_backup_and_restore_with_velero.html[documentation]. Make sure to use the same storage backend used to perform the backup so Velero can access the backups performed previously. If restoring on the same cluster, make sure to completely delete the existing {spr} deployment, including its namespace.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
. If the restoration is performed on a new Kubernetes cluster, install Velero by following the link:https://documentation.suse.com/suse-caasp/4.2/html/caasp-admin/_backup_and_restore_with_velero.html[documentation]. Make sure to use the same storage backend used to perform the backup so Velero can access the backups performed previously. If restoring on the same cluster, make sure to completely delete the existing {spr} deployment, including its namespace.

Author: done

> . If the restoration is performed on a new Kubernetes cluster, install Velero by following the link:https://documentation.suse.com/suse-caasp/4.2/html/caasp-admin/_backup_and_restore_with_velero.html[documentation]. Make sure to use the same storage backend used to perform the backup so Velero can access the backups performed previously. If restoring on the same cluster, make sure to completely delete the existing {spr} deployment, including its namespace.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. If the restoration is performed on a new Kubernetes cluster, install Velero by following the link:https://documentation.suse.com/suse-caasp/4.2/html/caasp-admin/_backup_and_restore_with_velero.html[documentation]. Make sure to use the same storage backend used to perform the backup, so that Velero can access the backups performed previously. If restoring on the same cluster, make sure to completely delete the existing {spr} deployment, including its namespace.
```

Author: done

> . If restoration is performed on a new Kubernetes cluster, install Velero by following the link:https://documentation.suse.com/suse-caasp/4.2/html/caasp-admin/_backup_and_restore_with_velero.html[documentation]. Make sure to use the same storage backend used to perform the backup, so that Velero can access the backups performed previously. If restoring on the same cluster, make sure to completely delete the existing {spr} deployment, including its namespace.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. If you are restoring onto a new Kubernetes cluster, install Velero by following the link:https://documentation.suse.com/suse-caasp/4.2/html/caasp-admin/_backup_and_restore_with_velero.html[CaaSP Velero documentation]. Make sure to use the same storage back-end used to perform the backup, so that Velero can access the existing backups. If restoring onto the same cluster, make sure to completely delete the existing {spr} deployment, including its namespace.
```

> . If the restoration is performed on a new Kubernetes cluster, install Velero by following the link:https://documentation.suse.com/suse-caasp/4.2/html/caasp-admin/_backup_and_restore_with_velero.html[documentation]. Make sure to use the same storage backend used to perform the backup, so that Velero can access the backups performed previously. If restoring on the same cluster, make sure to completely delete the existing {spr} deployment, including its namespace.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. If restoration is performed on a new Kubernetes cluster, install Velero by following the link:https://documentation.suse.com/suse-caasp/4.2/html/caasp-admin/_backup_and_restore_with_velero.html[documentation]. Make sure to use the same storage backend used to perform the backup, so that Velero can access the backups performed previously. If restoring on the same cluster, make sure to completely delete the existing {spr} deployment, including its namespace.
```

Author: done

> . Perform the restore by running the `velero restore create <restore-name> --from-backup <backup-name>` command, for example:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. Perform the restore by running the command `velero restore create <restore-name> --from-backup <backup-name>`, for example:
```

Author: done

> . Perform the restore by running the command `velero restore create <restore-name> --from-backup <backup-name>`, for example:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. To restore the cluster, run the command `velero restore create <restore-name> --from-backup <backup-name>`. For example:
```

+
[source,bash]
----
> velero restore create registry-restore --from-backup registry-backup
Restore request "registry-restore" submitted successfully.
Run `velero restore describe registry-restore` or `velero restore logs registry-restore` for more details.
----

> . Run `velero restore describe <restore-name>` to check the restore status and ensure that it finishes successfully, for example:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
. Run `velero restore describe <restore-name>` to check the status and ensure its completion. For example:

Author: done

> . Run `velero restore describe <restore-name>` to check the restore status and ensure its completion. For example:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
.  To check the restore status and ensure its completion, run `velero restore describe <restore-name>`. For example:
```

+
[source,bash]
----
> velero restore describe registry-restore
Name:         registry-restore
Namespace:    velero
Labels:       <none>
Annotations:  <none>

Phase:  Completed

Errors:
  Velero:     <none>
  Namespaces: <none>

Backup:  registry-backup

Namespaces:
  Included:  *
  Excluded:  <none>

Resources:
  Included:        *
  Excluded:        nodes, events, events.events.k8s.io, backups.velero.io, restores.velero.io, resticrepositories.velero.io
  Cluster-scoped:  auto

Namespace mappings:  <none>

Label selector:  <none>

Restore PVs:  auto

Restic Restores (specify --details for more information):
  Completed:  4
----

.Restore options
[NOTE]
====

> For more advanced options such restoring from an scheduled backup, check the link:https://documentation.suse.com/suse-caasp/4.2/html/caasp-admin/_backup_and_restore_with_velero.html[Velero documentation].

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
For more advanced options, such restoring from an scheduled backup, see the link:https://documentation.suse.com/suse-caasp/4.2/html/caasp-admin/_backup_and_restore_with_velero.html[Velero documentation].

Author: done

====

> ==== Backup/restore of external services

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
==== Backup and restore of external services

Author: done

> For more advanced options, such restoring from an scheduled backup, see the link:https://documentation.suse.com/suse-caasp/4.2/html/caasp-admin/_backup_and_restore_with_velero.html[Velero documentation].

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For more advanced options, such restoring from a scheduled backup, see the link:https://documentation.suse.com/suse-caasp/4.2/html/caasp-admin/_backup_and_restore_with_velero.html[Velero documentation].
```

> For backup/restore of external services check the official documentation of the adopted solution, for example:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
For the backup and restore of external services, see the official documentation of the adopted solution. For example:

Author: done

> For the backup and restore of external services, see the official documentation of the adopted solution. For example:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For backup and restore of external services, see the official documentation of the adopted solution. For example:
```

> For the backup and restore of external services, see the official documentation of the adopted solution. For example:

Reviewer 2: Either stick to the fairly common, standard, "backup and restore", _or_ the more grammatically-correct "backup and restoration", but do not mix both. I leave it up to you which one you would prefer.

Author: I prefer to use "backup and restore" so we keep it consistent with the Velero documentation.
